The following is a conversation with demouth casabas CEO and co-founder of deepmind. Thomas is widely considered to be one of the most brilliant and impactful humans in the history of artificial intelligence. This episode is brought to you by inside tracker a service that used to track biological data data that comes from my body.When did you fall in love with AI so when did you first. start to gain understanding that you can not just write programs that do some mathematical operations for you while you sleep. A keen to bringing an entity to life sort of a thing that can figure out something more complicated than a than a simple mathematical operation. Yeah so that was a few stages for me or what I was very young.And optimizing with complicated objectives around those rulesets we can't currently do but you could take a specific rule set and then run kind of self play experiment to see how long just observe how an AI system from scratch learns. If it satisfies some of those other things you mentioned towards the quick links to learn and so on and you could see a long journey to master. But it would be nice to do almost like Alpha codes of programming yeah rules.In terms of the data and the amount of innovations that had to go into it we you know it was like more than 30 different component algorithms needed to be put together to crack the protein folding. A four-fold is the most complex and also probably most meaningful system we've built so far so it's been an amazing time.I think there's going to be some amazing advances in biology built on top of things like Alpha fold we're already seeing that with the community doing that after we've open sourced and released it. We see an amazing fundamental research done so a couple of weeks ago front cover of there was a whole special issue of science with including the nuclear pore complex.Until now you can run expensive simulations but then you can only simulate very small molecules very simple molecules we would like to simulate large materials and so today there's no way of doing that. We're building up towards building functionals that approximate Schrodinger's equation and then allow you to describe what the electrons are doing and all material sort of Science and material properties are governed by the electrons and how they interact.If you had to choose one sort of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy one sentence summary of like oh those clever creatures did this that would be the Multiverse. There are some incredible things that no one knows how happened like obviously the first. Life form from chemical soup that's seems pretty hard.I think as a first step it would be better if we have the choice to build these systems as tools to give and I'm not saying that it should never they should never go beyond tools because of course the potential is there way to go way Beyond just tools but I think that would be a good first step. I hope we're going to be a big part of of birthing Ai and that being the greatest benefit to humanity of any tool or technology.
